chapter: Functions
==================

var myObject = (function () {
    var value = 0;

    return {
        increment: function (inc) {
            value += typeof inc === 'number' ? inc : 1;
        },
        getValue: function (  ) {
            return value;
        }
    };
}());
    
    
====================================
// Create a maker function called quo. It makes an
// object with a get_status method and a private
// status property.

var quo = function (status) {
    return {
        get_status: function (  ) {
            return status;
        }
    };
};

// Make an instance of quo.

var myQuo = quo("amazed");

document.writeln(myQuo.get_status(  ));
    
    
====================================
// Define a function that sets a DOM node's color
// to yellow and then fades it to white.

var fade = function (node) {
    var level = 1;
    var step = function (  ) {
        var hex = level.toString(16);
        node.style.backgroundColor = '#FFFF' + hex + hex;
        if (level < 15) {
            level += 1;
            setTimeout(step, 100);
        }
    };
    setTimeout(step, 100);
};

fade(document.body);
    
    
====================================
// BAD EXAMPLE

// Make a function that assigns event handler functions to an array
 of nodes the wrong way.
// When you click on a node, an alert box is supposed to display the ordinal
of the node.
// But it always displays the number of nodes instead.

var add_the_handlers = function (nodes) {
    var i;
    for (i = 0; i < nodes.length; i += 1) {
        nodes[i].onclick = function (e) {
            alert(i);
        };
    }
};

// END BAD EXAMPLE
    
    
====================================
// BETTER EXAMPLE

// Make a function that assigns event handler functions to an array of nodes.
// When you click on a node, an alert box will display the ordinal of the node.

var add_the_handlers = function (nodes) {
    var helper = function (i) {
       return function (e) {
          alert(i);
       };
    };
    var i;
    for (i = 0; i < nodes.length; i += 1) {
        modes[i].onclick = helper(i);
    }
};
    
    
